runbooks/VirtControllerRESTErrorsHigh.md, before:

# VirtControllerRESTErrorsHigh

## Meaning

More than 5% of REST calls failed in `virt-controller` in the last 60 minutes.

This is most likely because `virt-controller` has partially lost connection to
the API server.

This error is frequently caused by one of the following problems:

- The API server is overloaded, which causes timeouts. To verify if this is the
case, check the metrics of the API server, and view its response times and
overall calls.

- The `virt-controller` pod cannot reach the API server. This is commonly caused
by DNS issues on the node and networking connectivity issues.

## Impact

Node-related actions, such as starting and migrating, and scheduling virtual
machines, are delayed. Running workloads are not affected, but reporting their
current status might be delayed.

## Diagnosis

1. Set the `NAMESPACE` environment variable:

   ```bash
   $ export NAMESPACE="$(kubectl get kubevirt -A -o custom-columns="":.metadata.namespace)"
   ```

2. List the available `virt-controller` pods:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get pods -n $NAMESPACE -l=kubevirt.io=virt-controller
   ```

3. Check the `virt-controller` logs for error messages when connecting to the
API server:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl logs -n $NAMESPACE <virt-controller>
   ```

## Mitigation

- If the `virt-controller` pod cannot connect to the API server, delete the pod
to force a restart:

  ```bash
  $ kubectl delete -n $NAMESPACE <virt-controller>
  ```

<!--DS: If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.-->
<!--USstart-->
If you cannot resolve the issue, see the following resources:

- [OKD Help](https://www.okd.io/help/)
- [#virtualization Slack channel](https://kubernetes.slack.com/channels/virtualization)
<!--USend-->

Commit message:

Build: (914b00f) Merge pull request #302 from sradco/add_runbook_for_vm_high_memory_alert
Add runbook for VM Guest memory high alerts

runbooks/VirtControllerRESTErrorsHigh.md, after:

# VirtControllerRESTErrorsHigh [Deprecated]

This alert has been deprecated; it does not indicate a genuine issue. If
triggered, it may be safely ignored and silenced.

## Meaning

More than 5% of REST calls failed in `virt-controller` in the last 60 minutes.

This is most likely because `virt-controller` has partially lost connection to
the API server.

This error is frequently caused by one of the following problems:

- The API server is overloaded, which causes timeouts. To verify if this is the
case, check the metrics of the API server, and view its response times and
overall calls.

- The `virt-controller` pod cannot reach the API server. This is commonly caused
by DNS issues on the node and networking connectivity issues.

## Impact

Node-related actions, such as starting and migrating, and scheduling virtual
machines, are delayed. Running workloads are not affected, but reporting their
current status might be delayed.

## Diagnosis

1. Set the `NAMESPACE` environment variable:

   ```bash
   $ export NAMESPACE="$(kubectl get kubevirt -A -o custom-columns="":.metadata.namespace)"
   ```

2. List the available `virt-controller` pods:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get pods -n $NAMESPACE -l=kubevirt.io=virt-controller
   ```

3. Check the `virt-controller` logs for error messages when connecting to the
API server:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl logs -n $NAMESPACE <virt-controller>
   ```

## Mitigation

- If the `virt-controller` pod cannot connect to the API server, delete the pod
to force a restart:

  ```bash
  $ kubectl delete -n $NAMESPACE <virt-controller>
  ```

<!--DS: If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.-->
<!--USstart-->
If you cannot resolve the issue, see the following resources:

- [OKD Help](https://okd.io/docs/community/help/)
- [#virtualization Slack channel](https://kubernetes.slack.com/channels/virtualization)
<!--USend-->
