runbooks/VirtualMachineCRCErrors.md, before:

# VirtualMachineCRCErrors

## Meaning

When running VMs using ODF storage with 'rbd' mounter or 'rbd.csi.ceph.com'
provisioner, Windows VMs may cause reports of bad crc/signature errors due to
certain I/O patterns. Cluster performance can be severely degraded if the number
of re-transmissions due to crc errors causes network saturation. 'krbd:rxbounce'
should be configured for the VM storage class to prevent these crc errors, the
"ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rbd-virtualization" storage class uses this option by
default, if available.

## Impact

Cluster may report a huge number of CRC errors and the cluster might experience
major service outages.

## Diagnosis

Obtain a list of VirtualMachines with an incorrectly configured storage class by
running the following PromQL query:

<!--DS: You can use the Openshift metrics explorer available at 'https://{OPENSHIFT_BASE_URL}/monitoring/query-browser'.-->

```promql
$ kubevirt_ssp_vm_rbd_volume{rxbounce_enabled="false", volume_mode="Block"} == 1

kubevirt_ssp_vm_rbd_volume{name="testvmi-gwgdqp22k7", namespace="test_ns", pv_name="testvmi-gwgdqp22k7", rxbounce_enabled="false", volume_mode="Block"} 1
```

The output displays a list of VirtualMachines that use a storage class without
`rxbounce_enabled`.

Obtain the storage class name by running the following command:

```bash
$ kubectl get pv ${PV_NAME} -o=jsonpath='{.spec.storageClassName}'
```

## Mitigation

It is recommended to create a dedicated StorageClass with "krbd:rxbounce" map
option for the disks of virtual machines, to use a bounce buffer when receiving
data. The default behavior is to read directly into the destination buffer. A
bounce buffer is required if the stability of the destination buffer cannot be
guaranteed.

Note that changing the used storage class will not have any impact on existing
PVCs/VMs, meaning that new VMs will be provisioned with the optimized settings
but existing VMs need to be transitioned or the alert will continue to fire for
those.

```bash
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: vm-sc
parameters:
  # ...
  mounter: rbd
  mapOptions: "krbd:rxbounce"
provisioner: openshift-storage.rbd.csi.ceph.com
# ...
```

If you cannot resolve the issue, see the following resources:

- [OKD Help](https://www.okd.io/help/)
- [#virtualization Slack channel](https://kubernetes.slack.com/channels/virtualization)

Commit message:

Build: (914b00f) Merge pull request #302 from sradco/add_runbook_for_vm_high_memory_alert
Add runbook for VM Guest memory high alerts

runbooks/VirtualMachineCRCErrors.md, after:

# VirtualMachineCRCErrors [Deprecated]

This alert has been deprecated; it does not indicate a genuine issue. If
triggered, it may be safely ignored and silenced.

## Meaning

When running VMs using ODF storage with 'rbd' mounter or 'rbd.csi.ceph.com'
provisioner, Windows VMs may cause reports of bad crc/signature errors due to
certain I/O patterns. Cluster performance can be severely degraded if the number
of re-transmissions due to crc errors causes network saturation. 'krbd:rxbounce'
should be configured for the VM storage class to prevent these crc errors, the
"ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rbd-virtualization" storage class uses this option by
default, if available.

## Impact

Cluster may report a huge number of CRC errors and the cluster might experience
major service outages.

## Diagnosis

Obtain a list of VirtualMachines with an incorrectly configured storage class by
running the following PromQL query:

<!--DS: You can use the Openshift metrics explorer available at 'https://{OPENSHIFT_BASE_URL}/monitoring/query-browser'.-->

```promql
$ kubevirt_ssp_vm_rbd_volume{rxbounce_enabled="false", volume_mode="Block"} == 1

kubevirt_ssp_vm_rbd_volume{name="testvmi-gwgdqp22k7", namespace="test_ns", pv_name="testvmi-gwgdqp22k7", rxbounce_enabled="false", volume_mode="Block"} 1
```

The output displays a list of VirtualMachines that use a storage class without
`rxbounce_enabled`.

Obtain the storage class name by running the following command:

```bash
$ kubectl get pv ${PV_NAME} -o=jsonpath='{.spec.storageClassName}'
```

## Mitigation

It is recommended to create a dedicated StorageClass with "krbd:rxbounce" map
option for the disks of virtual machines, to use a bounce buffer when receiving
data. The default behavior is to read directly into the destination buffer. A
bounce buffer is required if the stability of the destination buffer cannot be
guaranteed.

Note that changing the used storage class will not have any impact on existing
PVCs/VMs, meaning that new VMs will be provisioned with the optimized settings
but existing VMs need to be transitioned or the alert will continue to fire for
those.

```bash
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: vm-sc
parameters:
  # ...
  mounter: rbd
  mapOptions: "krbd:rxbounce"
provisioner: openshift-storage.rbd.csi.ceph.com
# ...
```

If you cannot resolve the issue, see the following resources:

- [OKD Help](https://okd.io/docs/community/help/)
- [#virtualization Slack channel](https://kubernetes.slack.com/channels/virtualization)
